PLIP 2780: textindexer (#344)
plone/plone.app.dexterity: docs/advanced/catalog-indexing-strategies.rst

Plone's main index is called *SearchableText*. This is the index which is searched when you use the main portal search. Fields in your custom content types are not necessarily added to SearchableText. Fields added via Dublin-core behaviors are automatically part of SearchableText; others are not.

> So, you may need to explicitly add fields to SearchableText if you wish their information to be findable via the main search. There are all sorts of highly customizable ways to do this, but the easiest is to use the `plone.app.dexterity.textindexer  <https://github.com/collective/plone.app.dexterity.textindexer>`_ add-on package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So, you may need to explicitly add fields to SearchableText if you wish their information to be findable via the main search. There are all sorts of highly customizable ways to do this, but the easiest is to use the `plone.app.dexterity.textindexer  <https://github.com/plone/plone.app.dexterity>`_ core package.
```

Add ``plone.app.dexterity`` to your buildout and you will gain the new Dexterity behavior `plone.textindexer` that will allow you to easily add fields to SearchableText. Once you turn on this behavior, you will then need to specify fields for addition to SearchableText.

.. note::

    Note that if you turn on the ``Dynamic SearchableText indexer behavior`` for a content type, then you must specify all fields that need SearchableText indexing. Dublin core fields like Title and Description are no longer automatically handled.

Once you have turned on the indexer behavior, edit the XML field model to add ``indexer:searchable="true"`` to the ``field`` tag for each field you wish to add to the SearchableText index.

> See the `plone.app.dexterity.textindexer  <https://github.com/collective/plone.app.dexterity.textindexer>`_ package documentation for details and for information on how to use it via Python schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the `/backend/indexing  <https://6-dev-docs.plone.org/backend/indexing>`_ documentation for details and for information on how to use it via Python schema.
```
